Create strategies-for-upgrading-grafana (#94517)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/upgrade-guide/when-to-upgrade/index.md

---
description: Strategies for upgrading your self-managed Grafana instance
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configuration
  - documentation
  - upgrade
title: Strategies for upgrading your self-managed Grafana instance
menuTitle: Strategies for upgrading your self-managed Grafana instance
weight: 1000
---

# Strategies for upgrading your self-managed Grafana instance

At Grafana Labs we believe in shipping features early and often, and in recent years we’ve doubled down on that philosophy.

We no longer wait for the yearly major release to give you access to the next big thing. Instead, we regularly make new features, bug fixes, and security patches available to our self-managing users ([Grafana OSS](https://grafana.com/oss/grafana/) and Grafana Enterprise) throughout the year.

Having a dependable release process provides users like you with the best Grafana experience possible, and it provides the flexibility to upgrade in a manner that works best for you and your organization.

## What to expect from each release type

We split Grafana OSS and Grafana Enterprise releases into three main categories:

> - **Minor release (every other month)**: These releases can include new features, deprecation notices, notices about upcoming breaking changes, previously announced breaking changes, bug fixes, and security vulnerability patches
> - **Major release (once a year, in April/May)**: Like a minor release but accompanied by [GrafanaCON](https://grafana.com/events/grafanacon/) and a comprehensive upgrade guide for users who like to upgrade only once a year
> - **Patching release (every month)**: These include bug fixes for currently supported versions, as well as any security vulnerability patches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Minor release (every other month)**: These releases can include new features, deprecation notices, notices about upcoming breaking changes, previously announced breaking changes, bug fixes, and security vulnerability patches.
- **Major release (once a year, in April/May)**: These are like a minor release, but accompanied by [GrafanaCON](https://grafana.com/events/grafanacon/) and a comprehensive upgrade guide for users who like to upgrade only once a year.
- **Patching release (every month)**: These include bug fixes for currently supported versions, as well as any security vulnerability patches.
```

You can choose your cadence: For frequent self-managed updates, you should follow the minor release (for example, upgrade 10.1 to 10.2), which also gives you access to the latest features. If you need a longer period to review our new releases, you should follow the major releases. Both strategies get patching releases with security fixes (high severity security fixes also result in ad-hoc patch releases). We’ll get into additional guidance on upgrade cadences later in this guide.

## How to find the specifics for a release

We love sharing all our great features with you so you can leverage Grafana to its fullest. We also understand that great release documentation allows you to upgrade with confidence.

> Whether it’s knowing that a pesky bug has been fixed, seeing that a security vulnerability is patched, or understanding how to mitigate the impact of breaking changes, proper documentation allows you to make informed decisions about when to upgrade your local Grafana instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether it’s knowing that a bug has been fixed, seeing that a security vulnerability is patched, or understanding how to mitigate the impact of breaking changes, proper documentation allows you to make informed decisions about when to upgrade your local Grafana instances.
```

We provide release documentation in multiple places to address different needs:

- [**What’s new**](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/whatsnew/?pg=blog&plcmt=body-txt) outlines new features debuting in each major and minor release.
- [**Breaking changes**](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/breaking-changes/?pg=blog&plcmt=body-txt) notify you of updates included in major releases that could impact you and provide mitigation recommendations when needed.
- [**Upgrade guides**](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/upgrade-guide/?pg=blog&plcmt=body-txt) instruct you on how to upgrade to a newer minor or major version.
- And finally, a [**changelog**](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) is generated for every release (major, minor, patching, security) and outlines all changes included in that release.

## When to expect releases

> Currently, Grafana is on a monthly release cycle, with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching. For example, here’s a look at scheduled releases for 2024:

Reviewer: This part still doesn't make sense to me:

> Currently, Grafana is on a monthly release cycle, with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching.

Based on the calendar below, I'm not clear on how this is rotating every other month when patching releases are every month.

Author: that's one for @margotphelps to clarify :)

Reviewer 2: You are correct, originally the schedule was every other month for patching but we changed that you can remove ", with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching. For example,"

> Currently, Grafana is on a monthly release cycle, with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching. For example, here’s a look at what scheduled releases to expect for the remainder of 2024:

Reviewer: Let's make this evergreen
```suggestion
Currently, Grafana is on a monthly release cycle, with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching. For example, here’s a look at scheduled releases for 2024:
```

> Currently, Grafana is on a monthly release cycle, with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching. For example, here’s a look at what scheduled releases to expect for the remainder of 2024:

Reviewer: This description doesn't align with what's in the table or the **What to expect from each release type** section. I'm not seeing a rotation of any kind. We do patching monthly, minor every other month:

> with release types rotating every other month between minor or patching.

| **Anticipated release date** | **Grafana versions** | **Release type**   |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| May 14, 2024                 | 11                   | Major and patching |
| June 25, 2024                | 11.1                 | Minor and patching |
| July 23, 2024                | 11.1.x               | Patching           |
| Aug. 27, 2024                | 11.2                 | Minor and patching |
| Sept. 24, 2024               | 11.2.x               | Patching           |
| Oct. 22, 2024                | 11.3                 | Minor and patching |
| November/December 2024       | To be determined     | To be determined   |

### A few important notes

> - The schedule above is an outline of release dates. However, unforeseen events and circumstances may cause dates to change.

Reviewer: Making this more general vs specifically about our 2024 release dates. 
```suggestion
- The schedule above outlines how we plan release dates. However, unforeseen events and circumstances may cause dates to change.
```

- Support for the last minor release of a major version is extended an additional six months, for a total of 15 months of support after the release date.

Here is an overview of projected version support through 2024:

| **Version**               | **Release date**        | **Support end of life (EOL)** |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 10.3                      | January 2024            | October 2024                  |
| 10.4 (Last minor of 10.0) | March 2024              | June 2025 (extended support)  |
| 11.0                      | May 2024                | February 2025                 |
| 11.1                      | June 2024               | March 2025                    |
| 11.2                      | August 2024 (tentative) | May 2025 (tentative)          |

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Grafana 9.5.x was the last supported minor for the 9.0 major release and is no longer supported as of July 2024.
{{< /admonition >}}

## How are these versions supported?

The level of support changes as new versions of Grafana are released. Here are a few details to keep in mind:

> - The current (most recently released) version of Grafana gets the highest level of support. Releases for this version include all the fantastic new features along with all bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The current (most recently released) version of Grafana gets the highest level of support. Releases for this version include all the new features along with all bug fixes.
```

- All supported versions receive security patches for vulnerabilities impacting that version.
- All supported versions receive patches for bugs that cause critical feature degradation incidents.

Keeping all this in mind, users that want to receive the most recent features and all bug fixes should be on the current (most recently released) version of Grafana.

### What is a critical feature degradation?

A critical feature degradation usually meets one of the following criteria:

- Major functionality is universally unavailable (for example, cannot create dashboards, unable to authenticate).

> - Major (showstopping) impact to a significant amount of customers.

Reviewer: We should find another word here
```suggestion
- Major (critical) impact to a significant amount of customers.
```

| ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Minor / bi-monthly (11.1 to 11.2)**     | Our recommended strategy. It combines up-to-date, secure releases with access to latest features as soon as they get released. <ul><li>Small changelog to review</li><li>Highest compatibility with actively maintained plugins</li><li>Easy migration to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud)</li></ul> | <ul><li>**June 2024**: You review the 11.1 changelog and deploy the release to testing</li><li>**July 2024**: You deploy 11.1 to production</li><li>**August 2024**: 11.2 is released</li></ul>                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Minor / bi-monthly (11.1 to 11.2)**     | Our recommended strategy. It combines up-to-date, secure releases with access to latest features as soon as they're released. <ul><li>Small changelog to review</li><li>Highest compatibility with actively maintained plugins</li><li>Easy migration to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud)</li></ul> | <ul><li>**June 2024**: You review the 11.1 changelog and deploy the release to testing</li><li>**July 2024**: You deploy 11.1 to production</li><li>**August 2024**: 11.2 is released</li></ul>                                                                             |
```

> | **Major / yearly (10.0 to 11.0)**         | Yearly upgrade path that still gives access to up-to-date features presented at GrafanaCON.<ul><li>Big changelog to review</li><li>High compatibility with plugins</li><li>Relatively easy migration to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud)</li></ul>                                                   | <ul><li>**April 2024**: 11.0 is released, you start a big changelog review</li><li>**May 2024**: You deploy 11.0 to testing</li><li>**June 2024**: You deploy 11.0 to production<br> April 2025: 12.0 is released</li></ul>                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Major / yearly (10.0 to 11.0)**         | Yearly upgrade path that still gives access to up-to-date features presented at GrafanaCON.<ul><li>Big changelog to review</li><li>High compatibility with plugins</li><li>Relatively easy migration to [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud)</li></ul>                                                   | <ul><li>**April 2024**: 11.0 is released, you start a big changelog review</li><li>**May 2024**: You deploy 11.0 to testing</li><li>**June 2024**: You deploy 11.0 to production</li><li>**April 2025**: 12.0 is released</li></ul>                                                 |
```

| **Previous major / yearly (9.5 to 10.4)** | Release with extended support timeline<ul><li>Limited compatibility with actively developed plugins</li><li>Big changelog to review</li><li>Migrations to Grafana Cloud might require professional support</li></ul>                                                                                                    | <ul><li>**April 2024**: 11.0 is released, marking the previous minor (10.4.x) with extended support, you start a big changelog review (9.5.x to 10.4.x)</li><li>**May 2024**: You deploy 10.4.x to testing</li><li>**June 2024**: You deploy 10.4.x to production</li></ul> |

> For each strategy, you should keep an eye out for patch releases that fix security vulnerabilities (released monthly, plus ad-hoc releases). Follow the “minor” strategy for the most flexibility, as you can also occasionally lengthen the cadence to a full quarter and still rely on your currently deployed minor release being supported with security fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each strategy, you should stay informed about patch releases that fix security vulnerabilities (released monthly, plus ad-hoc releases). Follow the “minor” strategy for the most flexibility, as you can also occasionally lengthen the cadence to a full quarter and still rely on your currently deployed minor release being supported with security fixes.
```
